Lunar permanently shadowed regions (PSRs), can trap volatiles delivered from comets, asteroids, solar wind interactions, interior outgassing, and other sources over an extended period of time and are therefore key to understanding the behaviour history of volatiles on the Moon as well as other airless bodies in the solar system. 

However, the lack of direct illumination makes imaging of PSRs very challenging. We develop a low-light enhancing pipeline, that is capable of removing the high levels of noise in these images, unlocking the OHRC image archive for PSR-related science and exploration. We first perform data sub-sampling and this sub-sampled image consists of noise in it. Using CLAHE method
we are able to enhance the images. Hence, the sub-sampled noisy image and the result obtained after CLAHE is passed as input-ground truth pair to three deep learning models. We reached at a conclusion that the results obtained through MWCNN are better fit to our data and the images are enhanced. This output image allows us to imagine/peek into the morphological features of a PSR. But there's a trade-off that the noise present in the images is enhanced as well. To remove this speckle noise, we’ve also implemented a pre-trained CNN model used for SAR images despeckling, which removes noise to some extent but we also observed that the edges are smoothed too much to interpret anything, implying chances of feature loss. 

The findings of this study have practical implications for the imminent exploration of polar regions. This work was carried out in 2022, in collaboration with Physical Research Laboratory (PRL), Ahmedabad, India. 
